Great Job on completing the first level, you have now demonstrated you know the basics concepts of blockchain. §§Within this next level, my friends want your help to make bitcoin transactions, however, first I will need to teach you more about my blockchain ( the most popular one) which is the Bitcoin blockchain. 
The Bitcoin Blockchain is used to transfer bitcoin between users of this cryptocurrency. In order to make transactions on this blockchain,  each user must have a wallet which holds their bitcoin balance. Think of this like you're real-life wallet, but a digital version which can only store bitcoin. If someone wanted to put money inside your wallet, they don’t need to know any of your personal details, they just need to know which wallet is yours. Each wallet would have a unique identifier which is called an address, and in order to send someone money, all you need is their wallet address. §A good way to think of this is as if the wallet address is your bank details without your name attached. Anyone who is sending money to this wallet can’t see it is your wallet and they should only know this is yours if you told them. A bitcoin wallet address is usually between 26-35 characters long, consisting of letters and numbers and they always begin with a 1,3 or bc1. In this game, we will represent wallet addresses as 5 characters followed by a series of dots for simplicity e.g. bc169…§
So now you know what people need to make bitcoin transactions, let's look at how they are actually made. §§The path from sending bitcoin to receiving bitcoin has the following 3 stages: Signing, Broadcasting and Confirming. §§Let’s look at each of these in detail, then we’ll get stuck into the Level 2 gameplay. 
Let's look at signing first! The process of signing includes three parts. ±First, a transaction message must be generated, which contains the wallet address of the sender and receiver and the amount of bitcoin being transferred. §Then a digital signature must be created for this message since we want to ensure the transaction has come from the person who owns the wallet, and not some attacker. Hold on let's pause for a sec! Before we look at digital signatures, let's talk about keys. §There are two types of keys associated with your wallet address, private key and public keys. Both keys are long strings of numbers and when combined they provide authentication that the transaction was performed by the account owner. A private key acts as a password for your bitcoins and this should only be known by you and no one else. Whoever has access to your private key, can own your bitcoins. However, the public key can be seen by everyone.
Okay, now you understand the keys lets talk about digital signatures. ±A digital signature is created by mathematically encrypting the transaction message with the sender's private key. These digital signatures are unique and different each time you perform a transaction. This transaction can then only be decrypted with your public key since both of them are mathematically linked. Therefore, if the transaction is successfully decrypted it means only you could have created that transaction since only you have access to your private key. §Due to this reason, digital signatures are used to prove the account holder has made the transaction. The digital signature which has been created then must be combined with the transaction message and this into a small file called a tx file. §That’s the signing process completed! This step ensures that all the data needed for a transaction to take place is present and the user sending the money has authorised the transaction. Now onto the next step!  
Now let's look at Broadcasting.±During this step, the tx file is sent to all the other nodes on the bitcoin network. Remember: nodes are just computers which hold a copy of the blockchain. Each node validates a transaction's legitimacy, and it also examines the sender's account balance and amounts to guarantee they have enough funds to fulfil the transaction. This is similar to a bank checking your account balance, before processing a check. Once this check is completed, each node then broadcasts the result to others, who repeat this check.§Once this check has taken place, the node keeps the tx file in something we call the memory pool. This is the place where transactions are held when they have been verified but have not been confirmed. At this moment in time, if we look at the transaction using our blockchain explorer on the right, we can see it is marked as UNCONFIRMED or a 0 confirmation transaction. This means it was broadcasted to the network and has had its digital signature vetted but it has not been added to the blockchain yet. §Still with so far? If not then use the back arrow to revisit the learning material. Otherwise use the forward's arrow to move on to learning about the last step. 
Now let's examine how transactions are confined in the last step called confirming!±So bitcoin transactions are confirmed by miners. But who are they right? Well, miners are nodes who group those tx files which are currently sitting in the memory pool together into a block. Each block can contain multiple tx files therefore multiple transactions, which are added to the blockchain at once. In return for doing this miners will typically get a reward called mining fees. Miners can also usually pick the tx files with the highest mining fees attached to them, to form a block in order to get the most value for their money.§Once miners have grouped these transactions into a block, they then all compete against each other and race to add that block to the blockchain. But doing this is not so easy since as you learned in the last level, a mathematical calculation called Proof of Work must be done to add a block to the bitcoin blockchain. Whichever miner has the highest computational power will likely be the first to solve this equation and will win the race resulting in the miner’s block being added to the blockchain. 
Once this block is added to the blockchain, all of the transactions (held inside the tx files) will be considered confirmed. On average a transition will be added to the Bitcoin blockchain every 10 mins. The number of confirmations on this transaction will now be 1, and this number can be viewed in the block explorer. For each block which is added on top of this block, this number increases.§It's like lego building blocks, and every time another miner adds another block on top, it makes the original block harder to remove. §Typically as a security precaution, for a transaction to be fully confirmed the number of confirmations should be 6 to make cancellation of that transaction impossible.
§Okay, Phew! Well, that’s how transactions on my blockchain work! In this section, we covered: § - The different stages involved in processing bitcoin transactions.± - How nodes make use of the memory pool ± - The role of bitcoin miners± - What an unconfirmed transaction means §§If anything was unclear please go back and re-read my explanations. Otherwise, proceed forwards, I think you're ready to help my friends out.
§Great job for getting this far! Now help my friends by answering their questions about bitcoin transactions in order for them to complete transactions on the Bitcoin blockchain.§§Remember any incorrect answers will affect your score and you can revisit these learning screens during the game, but your gameplay mid-level won’t be saved so be sure you really need help. §§Good Luck! 