Hey there! I’m BitMan, your friendly teacher to help you learn about bitcoin and the Bitcoin Blockchain. This game will teach you all about what blockchains are, how bitcoin transactions are made and what you should know about the privacy of Bitcoin transactions.§This game will take the format of three levels. Before each level, you will be educated on some concepts and during the level, you will be answering questions to help my friends achieve perform certain tasks. §You can navigate through the game by using the forward and backwards arrows below and can exit the game by clicking the home button. Ready to get stuck in? §Click on the forward arrow to begin.
Okay, let's get stuck in! §Imagine you and your friends go out to eat, and you pay for their food with the agreement that they’ll pay you back later. But when they try to send you money to them the next day the bank transactions fail. Oh no! §Problems such as technical issues at the bank, accounts being hacked, exceeding daily transfer limits, and high transfer fees can all cause bank transactions to fail or lead to unexpected charges. This can be super annoying for you since you paid for the meal and also annoying for your friends since they are having trouble paying you back. However, cryptocurrencies can be used to perform payments which address these issues.§Cryptocurrencies are a type of digital currency that runs on a technology called a blockchain. Thanks to blockchain technology, cryptocurrencies (like me!) can't be counterfeited, don't need a central authority to manage them like a bank, and are protected by strong and complex encryption algorithms. §Let's have a look at how this type of technology works so you can understand it better.
So what even is a blockchain?±Well, a blockchain can be described as a chain of blocks tied together. It that’s really that simple. Think about a blockchain as if it is a ledger, which is a book that holds information about each transaction which has happened. This information can include who sent who money, how much was sent and the date and time the transaction took place. Once an entry is added to the ledger, it’s permanent and can’t be undone, like ink on paper.§ Now each page within that ledger would be called a block, and the book itself holding all the pages together would be called the blockchain. Now, imagine that you are making payments with people on a network and a copy of this ledger is then sent to everyone on this network. The ledger is distributed among other these peers, who also want to send and receive money from you. Each time a transaction is recorded in the ledger, all copies of this ledger are automatically updated. §Still with me so far? If not go backwards and have another look over our examples.± Otherwise proceed using the forward's arrow below, it's about to get technical! :)
Let's look at an actual block on the blockchain more closely.Each block contains 3 components which are “information”, the block's hash, and the hash of the block before it.§The type of blockchain determines what kind of information is stored in a block. For example, the Bitcoin blockchain stores information about a transaction, like who sent the bitcoin, who received them, and how many coins were sent. However, other blockchains could in theory hold anything from identification documents to your favourite pizza order.Usually, public blockchains have one specific purpose such as trading one specific cryptocurrency like ethereal or bitcoin.§The concept of a hash is a key part of how blockchains work. A hash is similar to a fingerprint. It identifies a block and everything in it. Like a fingerprint, it is always unique. As soon as a block is made, the hash is calculated using an encryption function and if you change something inside the block, it will change the hash completely. A block contains its own hash and the hash of the previous block in the chain. Hashes are a great way to find out if a block has changed since they are a fingerprint of the block, and if a block's fingerprint changes, it is no longer the is the same block. If this were to happen it would mean all the other blocks which were added to the blockchain after this block, would be redundant since all of those blocks would no longer have the same hash. §Get it? If not don’t worry. We will explore an example on the next page.
We have a three-block chain here. As you can see, each block contains a hash as well as the previous block's hash. So block number three points to block number two, and block number two points to block number one. The first block is unique in that it cannot point to a previous block because it is the first. This is called the genesis block. §Imagine what would happen if someone you messed around with the second block. This would change the hash of the block. Then, as a result, block 3 and all subsequent blocks will be invalid since they no longer store a valid hash of the prior block. As you can see altering a single block renders all subsequent blocks invalid. But altering a block is not that easy…..
Hashes, even though they can be used to identify changes in a block, do not stop people from hacking the blockchain since hashes can be very quick for computers to create. Therefore in theory someone could tamper with a block and quickly calculate all the other hashes relatively quickly. To stop this from occurring, computers have to perform a difficult mathematical calculation in order to create a new block and add it to the chain. §These calculations are called Proof of Work (PoW) for the Bitcoin Blockchain and they make it very difficult to tamper with any blocks on this chain, since solving these calculations for the most powerful computers can take around 10 mins each. Also, remember if one block is tampered with, the PoW for all following blocks must be re-calculated individually and added to the blockchain. That's a lot of Proof of Work!
Another security feature worth discussing is that a public blockchain is a peer-to-peer network which anyone can join. When a person joins, they receive a complete copy of the digital ledger, and their computer becomes a blockchain node. When a new block is formed, it is distributed to everyone on the network all the nodes which exist). Each node validates the block to confirm its integrity. It does this by checking that the sender has enough funds, they are the ones who performed the transaction and the account of the receiver is valid. If everything checks out, then each node sends an agreement signal, and for a block to be accepted onto the blockchain, 51% of the nodes on the network must deem this block as valid. §In order for someone to tamper with a transaction on the blockchain, they must recalculate details for all the blocks added to the chain since, re-do the PoW for each of these blocks and have control of more than 50% of the nodes on the network to allow the changed block to be accepted. Achieving all three is nearly impossible to do which is why blockchain technology is referred to as being very secure. 
Okay, that was a lot of learning. Phew! Let's summarise… §So you have learned about the information held inside a block, how the blocks link together to form a peer-to-peer disturbed ledger called a blockchain, how blocks are validated and how security is ensured on the blockchain. §Great! Now let's put some of that knowledge to practice. My friends want your help to perform blockchain transactions but first, you must prove your knowledge to me within  Level 1 Answer the questions asked for each stage by clicking and dragging the answer tiles. Then once you have completed all the stages, click submit to check your answers. Be warned! Incorrect answers will cause you to lose points so choose carefully.§You will be able to return to this screen and review these concepts during gameplay by clicking on the help icon at the top right of the screen. Good Luck!